( 25 >
give to certain [ystems of created senfiffffijss
matter, put together ae he thinks fit, some e»
grees of sense ‚ perception , and thought3
though I judge it no les} than a contr-adiffiom
to suppose matter (which is evidently, in its
ownnature, without senfi‘ ancl thought) should
be the eternal fi'st thinking being. What:
certainty of knowledge can my) one have, that
some perceptions‚ such as V. g. pleasnre and
pain, fhould not be in some bodies themselves
a ter ’
³ P. 3 151. 4. read, Thonght can never begin
to beg for it is impoſjl'ble to conceive that
matter, either with or without motion, coztld
have originally in and from itself sense, per-
ception, and knowledge, as is evident from
hence, that sense, perception, ancl knowledge
must then be a property eternat'ly inseparahle
from matter, and every particle of it. Not to
add, that though onr general or specifick con·
ception of matter makes usspeak of it? as one
thing, yet really all matter ie not one indivi-
αἴτιαί thing, neither ie there anysnch thing ex·-
isting as one material being or one body, that
we know or can conceive. And therefore, is
matter were the eternalfirsl cogitative being,
there would not he one eternal infinite cogita-
tive being: hut an infinite number of finite
cogitative being-5, imlependent one of another,
of limited force and distinct thoughts, which
could never produce that erilem -lmrmony‘, and
' ' ¹ ³ 5 ’ ’ bellu&

 

