( 247 >

and if knowledge and certainty be recipro-
cally the same, and confist in the perception
of the agreement or disagreement of two
ideas3 where Ι do not perceive these, tho’
God and man, nay the whole world should
testify to me that they do agree or disagree‚
Icannot be certain of it. Ι must profess
my self of another opinion ε, and I think J
am as certain there was such aman as Mr. L.
from the testimony of yon, and other cir-
cumstances, tho'l perceive no agreement or
disagreement in this case between the two
ideas to convince me of his being, as that¹
the three angles of a straight-lin’d triangle
are equal to two right angles, where I aclu-
ally perceive the agreement, or rather equa-
lity ε or, that the area of a cyclois is equal
to triple the generating circle, of which I
am certain by memory, tho' I do not at
present perceive the demonstration, or any
agreement between the ideas of three circles
and a cycloiS, only remember that I once
perceived it.

Let me farther add, that agreement and
diflzgreemenzt are metaphorical terins when
applied to ideas3 for-agreement properly, I
think, either fignifies, lst. a compa& be·
tween two personsg, or 2⁶1>ss two things
'fitting one another, as the two parts of a
tally 3 or gdly, the likeness of two thingS,
as of a pair of coach-horses·2 or Δῃὼ. the

R 4 aptitude-

